“India's G20 Presidency will work to promote this universal sense of one-ness. Hence our theme - 'One Earth, One Family, One Future'” – Prime Minister, , Narendra Modi

December 1st, 2022 is a momentous day as India assumed the presidency of the G20 forum, taking over from Indonesia. As the largest democracy in the world, and the fastest growing economy, India’s G20 presidency will play a crucial role in building upon the significant achievements of the previous 17 presidencies.

As it takes the G20 Presidency, India is on a mission to bring about a shared global future for all through the Amrit Kaal initiative with a focus on the LiFE movement which aims to promote environmentally-conscious practices and a sustainable way of living. With a clear plan and a development-oriented approach, India aims to promote a rules-based order, peace and just growth for all. The 200+ events planned in the run up to the 2023 Summit will strengthen India’s agenda and the six thematic priorities of India’s G20 presidency.

The G20 group of 19 countries and the EU was established in 1999 as a platform for Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to discuss international economic and financial issues. Together, the G20 countries account for almost two-thirds of the global population, 75% of global trade, and 85% of the world's GDP. In the wake of the global financial and economic crisis of 2007, the G20 was elevated to the level of Heads of State/Government and was named the "premier forum for international economic cooperation."

The G20 has two main tracks of engagement: the Finance Track for finance ministers and central bank governors and the Sherpa Track. The G20's proceedings are led by the Sherpas, who are appointed as personal envoys of the leaders of member nations.These Sherpas are responsible for overseeing the negotiations that occur throughout the year, deliberating on the agenda for the summit and coordinating the substantive work of the G20.  Both tracks have working groups to address specific themes with representatives from relevant parties.

Working groups this year will focus on global priority areas such as green development, climate finance, inclusive growth, digital economy, public infrastructure, technology transformation, and reforms for women empowerment for socio-economic progress. All these steps are taken to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and secure a better future for the generations to come.

India’s G20 Presidency:

India will convene the G20 Leaders' Summit for the first time in 2023, as 43 Heads of Delegations- the largest ever in the G20–will participate in the final New Delhi Summit in September later this year. As a nation committed to democracy and multilateralism, India's presidency will be a significant milestone as it seeks to find practical global solutions for the benefit of all and embody the idea of "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam," or "the world is one family."

The G20 Summit is held annually with a rotating presidency, and in 2023, India will hold the presidency. The group does not have a permanent secretariat and is supported by the previous, current, and future holders of the presidency, known as the troika. In 2023, the troika consists of Indonesia, Brazil, and India.

This summit will conclude a series of meetings throughout the year, with potential host cities for meetings from December 2022 to February 2023 including Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Chennai, Guwahati, Indore, Jodhpur, Khajuraho, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Pune, Rann of Kutch, Surat, Thiruvananthapuram, and Udaipur.

Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which translates to "One Earth, One Family, One Future," is the theme of India's G20 presidency. It is inspired from the Maha Upanishad, an old Sanskrit scripture. The theme fundamentally highlights the importance of all life—human, animal, plant, and microorganism—as well as their interdependence on Earth and across the universe. The theme also exemplifies LiFE (Lifestyle for Environment), which highlights the importance of environmentally sustainable and responsible lifestyle choices, both at the individual and national level, in creating a cleaner, greener, and bluer future.

The G20 Presidency also heralds for India the start of "Amritkaal," a 25-year period commencing from the 75th anniversary of its independence on August 15, 2022, leading up to the centenary of its independence

India's G20 Priorities:

1. Green Development, Climate Finance & LiFE

India's focus on climate change, with a particular emphasis on climate finance and technology, as well as ensuring just energy transitions for developing countries.
Introduction of the LiFE movement, which promotes environmentally-conscious practices and is based on India's sustainable traditions.
2. Accelerated, Inclusive & Resilient Growth

Focus on areas that have the potential to bring structural transformation, including supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in global trade, promoting labour rights and welfare, addressing the global skills gap, and building inclusive agricultural value chains and food systems.
 3.  Accelerating Progress on SDGs

Recommitment to achieving the targets set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with a particular focus on addressing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
4. Technological Transformation & Digital Public Infrastructure

Promotion of a human-centric approach to technology and increased knowledge-sharing in areas such as digital public infrastructure, financial inclusion, and tech-enabled development in sectors such as agriculture and education.
 5.  Multilateral Institutions for the 21st century

Efforts to reform multilateralism and create a more accountable, inclusive, and representative international system that is fit for addressing 21st century challenges.
6. Women-led Development

Emphasis on inclusive growth and development, with a focus on women empowerment and representation in order to boost socio-economic development and the achievement of SDGs.